JUST SAID THAT YOU HAVE
NOTIFIED THE ISRAELIS AND THEY
KNOW VERY WELL THESE LOCATIONS.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN TO ME WHY YOU
BELIEVE, BECAUSE IT'S A REALLY,
I'M AFRAID, CONTESTED TOPIC
RIGHT NOW.
WHY DO YOU THINK THESE CIVILIAN
AREAS ARE BEING HIT.
>> THE FIGHTING IS TAKING PLACE
IN OVERCROWDED AREAS, IN URBAN
AREAS, WE KNOW THAT FIGHTING IS
TAKING PLACE IN GAZA CITY RIGHT
NOW, BUT WE HAVE STILL, WE
ESTIMATE THAT THERE ARE STILL
AROUND 3 TO 400,000 CIVILIANS
IN THIS AREA, SO TO TAKE THE
EXAMPLE OF THE JABALIA CAMP, IT
WAS ONE OF THE MOST CROWDED
CAMPS IN THE GAZA STRIP, BUT WE
STILL BELIEVE THERE AROUND
40,000 PEOPLE REMAINING THERE.
SO YES --
INCLUDING THE UNWASHED SCHOOL,
UNFORTUNATELY, HAVE BEEN
UNFORTUNATELY ALSO HIT --
ARE MORE SAFE THAN ANYWHERE
ELSE.
>> HOW DO YOU CATEGORIZE THIS,
THEN?
IS IT ACCIDENTAL?
IS IT A WAR CRIME?
IS IT DELIBERATELY NOT
DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN
CIVILIANS AND HAMAS FIGHTERS?
>> ACCORDING TO INTERNATIONAL
LAW, THERE IS A --
PROPORTIONALITY, AND ALSO OF
DISTINCTION.
WHEN I WAS BRIEFING THE
SECURITY COUNCIL, THE NUMBER OF
PEOPLE BEING KILLED SO FAR IS
SO STAGGERING, THAT THIS CANNOT
BE COLLATERAL ANYMORE.
>> CAN I ASK YOU, BECAUSE WE'RE
TALKING TO YOU, AND WE HAVE
THIS OPPORTUNITY, YOU HAVE BEEN
INSIDE GAZA FOR THE FIT TIME
SINCE OCTOBER 7TH, YOU'VE
CALLED IT, I BELIEVE, THIS MOST
SAD DAY IN ALL YOUR
HUMANITARIAN WORK?
TALK TO ME ABOUT THAT?
>> I WAS FIRST TO GAZA 30 YEARS
AGO.
GAZA IS A SOCIETY I KNOW VERY
WELL, IT WAS A VIBRANT SOCIETY.
IT WAS EXTRAORDINARILY SAD,
BECAUSE I VISITED THE SCHOOL,
AN OVERCROWDED SCHOOL,
SHELTERING THOUSANDS OF
DISPLACED PEOPLE, AND BASICALLY
THE ONLY ASK THAT PEOPLE HAD AT
THAT TIME WAS GIVEE WATER,
PLEASE GIVE ME A LOAF OF BREAD,
AND LATER ON, I WAS TALKING TO
MY STAFF AND GAZA, AND THEY
WERE CONFIRMING THAT TODAY THE
GAZA STRIP IS RUNNING OUT OF
EVERYTHING, RUNNING OUT OF FUEL,
RUNNING OF FUEL, FOOD, RUNNING
OUT OF MEDICINE, AND THE MARKET
IS COMPLETELY DEPLETED.
IT'S EXTREMELY SAD TO SEE HOW
MUCH NOW THE POPULATION IS
COMPLETELY INDEPENDENT --
DEPENDENT ON INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY --
WHICH IS NOT IN POSITION
ANYMORE TO DELIVER AT THE SCOPE
WHAT THEY NEED.
WHAT I SEE RIGHT NOW IS I AN
ENTIRE POPULATION BEING MOVED
TO THE SOUTH, AND WHICH
BASICALLY HAS ABSOLUTELY
NOTHING AVAILABLE.
MANY OF THEM LEFT WITH VERY
LITTLE THINGS.
AND THEY ARRIVED IN THE SOUTH,
WHICH IS COMPLETELY OVERCROWDED,
TWICE AS POPULATION NOW, NO
MARKET, NO GOODS AVAILABLE
ANYMORE, AT THE MARKETS,
SERVICES ARE COLLAPSING, AND
THEY ALL DEPEND ON US RIGHT
NOW.
>> SO DO YOU UNDERSTAND, AND DO
YOU ACCEPT, WHAT WE SAW, WERE
INSTANCES OF LOOTING, AND THE
INTERNATIONAL AUTHORITIES SAID
THAT THE SOCIAL FABRIC IS
STARTING TO BREAK DOWN IN GAZA.
>> THE SOCIAL FABRIC IS INDEED
BREAKING DOWN, THE CIVIL ORDER
IS BREAKING DOWN, AND I
UNDERSTAND, YOU HAVE HUNDREDS
OF PEOPLE, QUEUING IN FRONT OF
BAKERIES NOWADAYS, JUST WITH
THE HOPE TO GET A LOAF OF BREAD,
AND WE ARE NOW PUT IN
SITUATIONS WHERE IT IS BECOMING
ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO OFF OF
BREAD FROM THE BAKERY THAT WE
ARE SUPPORTING, TO BRING BACK
TO OUR SHELTER, JUST BECAUSE
YOU HAVE 100 OF OTHER PEOPLE
EXPRESSING THEIR HUNGER IN
FRONT OF THIS BAKERY, AND I
UNDERSTAND ALSO THAT THIS
HUNGER IS TURNING INTO ANGER
AND WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY, AND --
AND THE UNWASHED IS THIS FACE
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, IN
THE GAZA STRIP.
>> EVEN DESPITE WHAT WE
UNDERSTAND IS A HUMANITARIAN
TRICKLE, I'M CALLING IT A
TRICKLE, YOU TELL ME WHAT IT IS,
WHAT'S COMING THROUGH RAFAH?
>> LISTEN, CHRISTIANE, WE NEED
MUCH, MUCH MORE.
BEFORE OCTOBER SEVEN, THERE WAS
AN AVERAGE OF 500 TRUCKS INTO
GAZA, AND THIS WAS ALREADY
DESCRIBED AS BEING A BLOCKADES,
AND YEAR AFTER YEAR AFTER YEAR
THE POPULATION OF GAZA STARTED
TO BECOME MORE DEPENDENCE OF
THE INTERNATIONAL HUMANITARIAN
COMMUNITY.
WE WERE, FOR EXAMPLE, PROVIDING
50% OF THE CALORIC NEED OF 1.2
MILLION PEOPLE BEFORE THAT.
TODAY, AFTER AN ALMOST TOTAL
SIEGE, WE ARE TALKING ABOUT A
HANDFUL OF TRUCKS COMING IN TO
THE GAZA STRIP AT A TIME WHEN
THE MARKET IS ALSO COMPLETELY
DEPLETED, AT A TIME WHEN THE
LAST REMAINING PUBLIC SERVICES
HAS COMPLETELY COLLAPSED.
SO YES, THIS HANDFUL OF TRUCKS,
BASICALLY DON'T DO ANYTHING TO
REVERSE THE FACT THAT GAZA, THE
GAZA STRIP, IS BEING STRANGLED
BY THE SIEGE.
>> FELIPE, CAN I ASK YOU THIS,
THERE'S A LOT OF CONTROVERSY
OVER FUEL, FOR INSTANCE.
AND REPORTS CITING ALL SORTS OF,
ISRAELI, WESTERN, OTHERS,
MIDDLE EASTERN, THEN OVER THE
YEARS HAMAS HAS STORED AND
HOARDED ALL THAT IT NEEDS IN
ITS UNDERGROUND TUNNELS, WHERE
THERE'S FOOD, MEDICINE, FUEL,
FOR ITS WAR EFFORT.
AND THAT IT COULD HAVE ENOUGH
TO FIGHT FOR 3 TO 4 MONTHS.
GAZA IS A VERY DIFFERENT PLACE
AND WHEN HE WENT 30 YEARS AGO.
OF WHAT CAN YOU TELL US ABOUT
THE HAMAS AUTHORITIES,
VIS--VIS TAKING CARE OF
CIVILIAN NEEDS?
>> SO LISTEN, WHAT I CAN TELL
YOU IS, NO ONE RIGHT NOW IS
TAKEN CARE OF THE CIVILIAN
NEEDS.
BUT WHEN IT COMES TO THE FUEL,
I HAVE NO IDEA WHAT THAT HAS
THE MILITARY BEEN BUILDING UP
OF THE HAMAS, IN THE GAZA STRIP,
BUT I CAN TELL YOU THAT WE AS
AN ROY R. RESERVE A FUEL HAS
COMPLETELY DEPLETED, AND WE ARE
LOOKING AT WHERE AND WHAT OTHER
FUEL IS AVAILABLE IN THE GAZA
STRIP.
THERE'S --
COMMERCIAL FUEL, THAT WAS
AVAILABLE, AND THERE WAS ALSO
FUEL THAT WAS BROUGHT IN BY THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, TO
SUPPLY THE ELECTRIC PLANT.
OVER THE LAST WEEK WE HAVE
CONFLICTION WITH THE ISRAELI --
THEY'RE REMAINING FUEL, THE
REMAINING COMMERCIALUEL,
WHICH WAS AVAILABLE IN THE GAZA
STRIP, WHICH MEANS, IN THE
COMING DAYS WE WON'T BE ABLE
ANYMORE TO SUPPLY BAKERIES,
SUPPLY HOSPITALS, SUPPLY THE
WATER STATION, BUT IN THE
COMING DAYS WE MIGHT EVEN BE
UNABLE TO MOVE OUR TRUCKS
WITHIN THE GAZA STRIP, TO
PROVIDE HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
TO 700,000 PEOPLE, FOR EXAMPLE,
SHELTERING IN OUR PREMISES, BUT
ALSO TO THE REST OF THE
POPULATION.
>> I HAVE TO SAY, IT STRUCK
WITH ME WHAT YOU SAID AT THE
BEGINNING, WITH ALL THE
CHILDREN WERE ASKING YOU FOR
ANSWERS OF WATER AND A PIECE OF
BREAD.
IT'S HEARTBREAKING TO HEAR THAT.
AND ALSO YOU, YOURSELF, AS
UNWRAP, HAVE LOSUR DOZENS
OF WORKERS TELL ME WHAT'S THE
SITUATIOTH YOUR OWN
EMPLOYEES ON THE GROUND?
>> WE HAVE LOST, AS OF NOW, 72
STAFF.
THE LAST STAFF I JUST HEARD WAS
DISABLED STAFFER, SHE WAS DOING
COATING, WE ONE YEAR AGO
PUBLISHED A VIDEO ABOUT WHAT
SHE WAS DOING VERY PROUD OF,
AND SHE'S THE LAST PERSON
REPORTED KILLED AMONG 72
PEOPLE.
I MET THE STAFF YESTERDAY IN
GAZA, BASICALLY THEY ARE
SHARING THE SAME DIFFICULTIES
AS ANYONE.
THEY WERE LIVING IN SHELTER,
THEY'RE STRUGGLING ON A DAILY
BASIS TO FIND BREATH, TO FIND
WATER, TO PROTECT THEIR
CHILDREN, AND DESPITE THAT, AND
DESPITE THE HEAVY LOSSES WITHIN
THIS ORGANIZATION, THEY REMAIN
COMMITTED TO DO WHATEVER IS
POSSIBLE TO PROVIDE SUPPORT TO
THE PEOPLE IN GAZA.
BUT IT'S A CONSTANT DAILY
STRUGGLE, BUT I HAVE TO SAY
THAT I TAKE A LOT OF
INSPIRATION IN THE STRENGTHS
AND THE DEDICATION.
>> WOULD YOU EVER CONSIDER
WITHDRAWING STAFF, JUST LIKE
SOME WOUNDED PALESTINIANS ARE
BEING EVACUATED?
DUAL NATIONALS ARE BEING
ALLOWED TO LEAVE.
>> WE ARE --
SCALING UP OUR OPERATION, I
HAVE BEEN VERY CLEAR WE, NEED
TO SCALE OUR OPERATION, WE
SHOULD NOT CONTINUE TO TALK
ABOUT 50, 60, 70, TRUCKS.
THIS OPERATION NEEDS TO BE
BROUGHT UP AT SCALE, IF WE WANT
TO RESERVE AN ONGOING, CIVIL
BREAKDOWN, BUT IF WE WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT PEOPLE DO NOT
START TO DIE BECAUSE OF THE
IMPACT OF THE SIEGE, BECAUSE OF
OUR DIFFICULTIES TO BRING OUR
SUSTENANCE AT SCALE, TO THE
GAZA STRIP.
>> FELIPE, I WANT TO ASK YOU
ATTACH A QUESTION.
EVERYTHING IS DISPUTED, NUMBERS
ARE DISPUTED, DEATH TOLLS,
WHO'S A CIVILIAN, WHO'S A
FIGHTER.
THIS PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY, IS
A HAMAS-RUN AUTHORITY IN GAZA,
AND THE OFFICIALS IN RAMALLAH,
SAY THAT NOW OVER 9000
PALESTINIANS HAVE BEEN KILLED
SINCE THE WAR BEGAN, AFTER
OCTOBER 7TH.
I SPOKE TO FORMER ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER A HOOD ALMOST THIS
WEEK.
HE SAID THESE NUMBERS ARE
EXAGGERATED, AND I QUOTED YOU,
BASICALLY SAYING THAT IN THE
PAST SIX CYCLES OF CONFLICT,
HAMAS FIGURES HAD BEEN
CONSIDERED CREDIBLE, BY ALL
SIDES.
TAKE A LISTEN TO WHAT HE SAID.
>> THE U.N. NUMBERS ARE AS
CREDIBLE AS HAMAS NUMBERS.
--
I DON'T TRUST YOU ARE NUMBERS,
THEY ARE NOT RELIABLE.
>> WHAT DO YOU SAY TO THAT?
>> LISTEN, I CAN TELL YOU THAT
THE 72 STAFF MEMBERS OF ON WHAT
ALL ARE RELIABLE, THEY HAVE
BEEN CONFIRMED, THESE ARE OUR
FIGURES, AND IF I COMPARE IT TO
72 WITH OUR 13,000 STAFF IN THE
GAZA STRIP, WITH A 9000 BEING
--
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, AND THE 2.2
MILLION INHABITANTS IN THE GAZA
STRIP, WE HAVE MORE OR LESS THE
SAME PERCENTAGE OF